# Image_Compression_RPC_Server_Client
Designed and implemented a pair of RPC image compression server and client using _**SUN RPC/XDR framework**_. The RPC server will accept a jpeg image as input, downsample it to a lower resolution and return the resulting image. The RPC client invokes remote functions on the server machine as _**Remote Procedure Calls**_ to downsample the images. Both client and server are multi-threaded to support concurrent image compression. <br /><br />

The first step is to define the RPC interface through the XDR file **minifyjpeg.x**. The syntax and semantics of this type files can be found in the Cisco RPC/XDR instruction website. <br />

The `rpcgen` tool will generate much of the C code needeed by the program. Use the -MN option for the "multi-threaded" support and the “newer” rpc style that allows for multiple arguments. <br />

Here is a summary of the relevant files and their roles.
- **minifyjpeg.x** - defines the RPC/XDR interface here.
- **minifyjpeg.h** - (generated by rpcgen from minifyjpeg.x) header file containing the server-side function declarations.
- **minifyjpeg.c** - implements the needed server-side function.
- **minifyjpeg_clnt.c** - (to be generated by rpcgen from minifyjpeg.x) contains the client side code that executes the RPC call.
- **magickminify.[ch]** - (do not modify) a library with a simple interface that downsamples jpeg files to half their original resolution.
- **minify_via_rpc.c** - implements the client-side functions that send the input file to server for downsampling.
- **minifyjpeg_main.c** - a workload generator for the RPC server.
- **minifyjpeg_svc.c** - (to be generated by rpcgen from minifyjpeg.x) contains the entry point for the server code. 
- **minifyjpeg_xdr.c** - (to be generated by rpcgen from minifyjpeg.x) contains code related to data structures defined in minifyjpeg.x
- **workload.txt** - an example workload file that can be passed into the client main program minifyjpeg_main.c
